## Foreword by Michael Fogus

As a life-long bibliophile and long-time follower of Reg's online work, I was excited when he started writing books. However, I'm very conservative about books -- let's just say that if there was a aftershave scented to the essence of "Used Book Store" then I would be first in line to buy. So as you might imagine I was "skeptical" about the decision to release JavaScript Allongé as an ongoing ebook, with a pay-what-you-want model. However, Reg sent me a copy of his book and I was humbled. Not only was this a great book, but it was also a great way to write and distribute books. Having written books myself, I know the pain of soliciting and receiving feedback.

The act of writing is an iterative process with (very often) tight revision loops. However, the process of soliciting feedback, gathering responses, sending out copies, waiting for people to actually read it (if they ever do), receiving feedback and then ultimately making sense out of how to use it takes weeks and sometimes months. On more than one occasion I've found myself attempting to reify feedback with content that either no longer existed or was changed beyond recognition. However, with the Leanpub model the read-feedback-change process is extremely efficient, leaving in its wake a quality book that continues to get better as others likewise read and comment into infinitude.

In the case of JavaScript Allongé, you'll find the Leanpub model a shining example of effectiveness. Reg has crafted (and continues to craft) not only an interesting book from the perspective of a connoisseur, but also an entertaining exploration into some of the most interesting aspects of his art. No matter how much of an expert you think you are, JavaScript Allongé has something to teach you... about coffee. I kid.

As a staunch advocate of functional programming, much of what Reg has written rings true to me. While not exclusively a book about functional programming, JavaScript Allongé will provide a solid foundation for functional techniques. However, you'll not be beaten about the head and neck with dogma. Instead, every section is motivated by relevant dialog and fortified with compelling source examples. As an author of programming books I admire what Reg has managed to accomplish and I envy the fine reader who finds JavaScript Allongé via some darkened channel in the Internet sprawl and reads it for the first time.

Enjoy.

-- Fogus, [fogus.me](http://www.fogus.me)